Thank you and welcome everyone to the
Active Directory Integration session.
This will be the shortest session
because I think everyone is
going to the airport afterwards.
So let us get started.
My name is Ståle Bjordal
and I am with the
Enterprise Professional Services Group at
Apple.
On the agenda,
we're going to do a presentation
in the beginning and followed
by two live demonstrations.
One that's going to talk about the
server side and one that's going to
be talking about the client side.
If we have time,
we'll do some Q&A at the end.
That's pretty much how we're going
to do it for about an hour or so.
First I'd like to talk a little bit about
what Active Directory is and how we fit
into the space that is Active Directory.
Just like Open Directory,
it is a directory system that's
based on primarily LDAP and Kerberos.
Microsoft took it, wrapped their
Microsoft technologies around it,
and it is proprietary,
but that doesn't mean that
we can't work with that.
Primarily Active Directory is
used for Windows computers,
make no mistake about it.
Just like we want to use
Open Directory to manage our clients
and manage our users and groups,
that's what Active Directory does in the
Windows space for assigning profiles,
publishing applications,
setting policies for users and groups.
Their environment is slightly more
complicated and complex than what
we can do with Open Directory,
just for the sheer size of things.
Everything, just like OD,
is stored in a centrally
accessible database.
It's organized very well.
We,
as Apple and OS X clients and servers,
tie into Active Directory so that we
can authenticate our users and authorize
so we can get access to resources.
We can also use Active Directory to
manage our clients and groups
within Active Directory or
the Open Directory service
and clients that are bound
to the Active Directory domains.
Microsoft and AD have a little bit
more of a complicated system in
what we do with Open Directory.
There are some terms there that's going
to be somewhat of importance for us
if we want to bind in in a slightly
larger corporate or educational setting.
Essentially you have a forest,
which is the all-encompassing domain.
If you have one domain,
you only have one forest.
Within the forest you have
multiple subdomains and subdomains
essentially differentiate from
the domain security policies.
We as Active Directory users and OS X and
clients and servers can decide if we
want to bind to a specific domain or if
we want to bind and allow all the users
within the whole forest to authenticate
and use our servers and clients.
Within domains,
you have a lot of different
types of containers.
You have OUs and you have
containers and those organizational
units store computer records,
printers, users, groups.
It's primarily important for us to know
where the computer object for the client
or the server that's going to be bound,
where it's going to be stored.
By default,
the computer object will go into
a container called computers
in the root of the domain,
but as soon as you start expanding
your Active Directory environment,
you're going to have a lot of
different types of containers.
You have a lot of different
types of containers.
You have AD administrators.
More often than not,
they tend to move computers around.
If you come in as an
Open Directory administrator
and want to bind your server,
you may not have access or you may not
be allowed to put your OS X computer
account in the default container.
It's definitely something
that you need to work with the
Active Directory administrator on and
figure out where you should put it
and if you have permissions to do so.
Lastly, there's also a concept called
Sites in Active Directory.
It is probably the most important piece,
at least I think so.
Sites is a physical organization of
resources based on essentially a subnet.
What happens is that the AD plugin,
which is the tool that's used
to bind 99% of the times,
will go out and it will search
your Active Directory domain
for sites information.
If it finds a site,
then it's going to attempt to
use those Active Directory domain
controllers first to bind with.
Sites should be used if possible.
If you don't have sites configured
in Active Directory domain or
if you're not sure what it is,
work with your
Active Directory administrator
and see if there's a site that
is configured for your physical
building or your physical location.
If you don't have sites configured,
what's going to happen is that
the AD plugin will essentially
start querying DNS and it will
look for domain controllers.
It's going to try to find
domain controllers that are
closest to you in proximity,
again based on the sites information,
but if you don't have that configured,
there's really no telling
what domain controllers
you're going to be binding to.
If you are in Dallas,
you would like to be bound to
a domain controller in Dallas,
but there are chances that you can
bind to domain controllers that
is literally all over the country.
That could bring some problems.
So what is it that we tend to ask our
customers to check out when you want
to integrate with Active Directory?
DNS, Fully Qualified Domain
Name for your domain.
This is sort of a departure from the
people that are used to using NT,
where your domain name was
simply your NetBios name,
and it could be any sort of
name shorter than 15 characters.
But for Active Directory and
for successful integration,
Microsoft as well as Apple will
recommend that your domain is
a fully qualified domain name.
There will be problems if your
domain cannot be resolved in DNS.
And when you install Active Directory,
it's also going to be really
hard to work around not doing
what Microsoft recommends.
You will essentially be
breaking your DNS and your
Active Directory before you get started.
Ensure that sites are configured.
Again, if you don't know what it is,
talk to your AD administrator.
Ask him if there's a site configured
for this physical location,
either this building, this metro network,
this WAN, whatever it may be.
Ensure that when you bind,
and we're going to be
demoing all of this,
so in order for you to be able
to bind into Active Directory,
you need to have access to do so.
And what we do when a binding session
happens is that you're creating a
computer account in Active Directory.
By default, the user that can do that is
any administrator that's a
domain administrator or higher.
But if a company has
stringent security policies,
then a user that's also been
delegated a right to create
computer objects will suffice.
So if, like we talked about earlier,
if you have an
Active Directory environment where
your computer account is supposed
to go into a specific container
or an organizational unit,
then all that's really needed to
bind is a user that's allowed to
create a computer object in the OU.
for the computer object.
[Transcript missing]
So what is the benefits of
integrating with Active Directory?
Primarily,
it's because you have one username
and you have one password that will
get you access to all your resources
on the Active Directory space,
as well as the Open Directory space.
You don't have to worry about users
trying to use one user account when
you're logging in here or one user
account when you're logging in there.
You don't have to worry
about synchronization between
Active Directory and Open Directory.
It all magically works using
one username and password.
You have one Kerberos domain.
There's no more cross realm trust issues,
although it's possible to do so,
but why would you when you
can integrate fully with the
Active Directory Kerberos realm?
It's easier for Apple as a
company to maintain a presence
and play in the data center,
in the enterprise field.
We are fully aware of how
Microsoft Active Directory is
very heavily used.
And, you know, you shouldn't be comparing
apples and oranges,
literally.
But we know that if we don't play well
with Active Directory and with Microsoft,
then that's ultimately going
to hurt us in the long run.
So it benefits Apple as a company to
be able to play with Microsoft and
Active Directory in their environment.
And using the AD plugin and binding to
Active Directory does that job very,
very well.
The last major benefit is once you're
bound and everything is working fine,
you have a transparent
access to the resources.
Because of the ACLs that
we introduced in Tiger,
you have access to resources that
requires no serious maintenance
other than having administrators
setting the right permission or
setting the right access to the
resources that are available to you.
The SharePoints on the
OS X Server will work with the
Active Directory users and groups.
The Active Directory users,
whether they are logging in from an
OS X client or from a Windows XP client,
will have a single sign-on,
fully single sign-on
environment to an OS X server,
to a Windows server, from an OS X client,
from an XP client,
and it will seamlessly work
together in a single sign-on
environment because of Kerberos.
And that's a beautiful thing.
Thank you.
So why, in addition to password
and a single user sign-on,
would people want to integrate?
Managed client is a very
good reason to do so.
As you know, with Open Directory,
you have the ability to bind all your
OS X clients to Open Directory and
then use applications such as
Worker Manager to assign rights
and privileges to users with regards
to what printers they can access,
what they can do with C++, etc.
Managed client is a very
good reason to do so.
As you know, with Open Directory,
you have the ability to bind all
your OS X clients to Open Directory,
etc.
Managed client is a very
good reason to do so.
As you know, with Open Directory,
you have the ability to bind all
your OS X clients to Open Directory,
etc.
So what happens is that you have
a client that is bound to both
Active Directory and Open Directory.
He will get the users
from Active Directory,
get the managed preferences
from Open Directory.
Active Directory will authenticate.
It will see that it's a member
of a group in Open Directory.
It will see that there
are some preferences that
are applied to that group.
And bam,
your user environment has been created.
will skip through some slides here.
If you don't want to
use the magic triangle,
what other options are there?
You can do schema extensions
and extend the schema in your
Active Directory to accommodate
essentially the Open Directory schema.
What that would mean would then you could
take Workgroup Manager application and
then use it against Active Directory and
store settings for the users
and the groups straight into
Active Directory without using
Open Directory in the mix whatsoever.
The Service Pack 2 for Windows 2003
Server is currently scheduled
to play more in the Unix,
Unix,
the LDAP world with an implementation
of RFC 2307 that we hope is
going to make it a little bit
easier for us to play with that.
There's also a great product
called Centrify that just were
announced a couple of days
ago or a couple of weeks ago,
which will use the familiar
MMCs in Active Directory.
directory to manage Macintosh clients.
[Transcript missing]
Thank you, good morning,
for coming here and
sticking around on Friday.
Can we get the demo machine up here?
Great.
So what we have here is a vanilla
installation of Mac OS 10.4 Server.
And what we're going to go through
is the process of creating an
Open Directory domain on the server,
integrating that with
Active Directory for Kerberos,
and also setting up some file sharing.
So in the server admin application,
the first thing we're going to do
is find the Open Directory service.
Excuse me.
And under settings,
We can actually take this to
be a Open Directory master.
It's going to ask you to
create a DuraAdmin account.
This is the account that you
can use to administrate your
LDAP in the Open Directory.
And we just create a
secure password for that.
And save.
And right now in the background,
it's actually going to
start up a lot of services.
It's going to start up a Kerberos KDC.
It's going to create a Kerberos
key tab file for all of your
services that can be Kerberized.
It's also going to take that
DIR admin account that we just
created and make that the first
entry in the LDAP shared domain.
This runs a lot faster
on our server hardware,
so.
Should really stress how many services
it's starting in the background here,
and how many plist files
and configuration files.
We're gonna get into that in one second,
so I can show you all those.
I'm sorry.
- Show us the slide and then pick a lot.
- This should be done in just a second,
I mean, hopefully.
No, no, no.
We're going to the assumption
DNS is perfect right now.
Okay,
so we have an Open Directory master.
Thank you.
So if we go back to the overview,
we can see that we are running.
Our Kerberos is running.
So that's good.
That means that we should
have DNS up and going.
And now we're going to go in,
is we're actually going to start
destroying all those nice things that
we did in the background there to get
this to work with Active Directory in
a more clean sort of environment.
So the first thing we're going to
do is we're actually going to remove
the Kerberos KDC on this machine.
And what we can do is
use the SSO utility.
And of course,
we have to put in an administrative
username and our secure password,
which I'm going to share with everyone.
So don't tell anyone after we leave here.
And if we refresh this,
we can see that Kerberos has stopped.
Sorry.
It's at the top here.
Is it kind of readable?
Sort of?
So now I'm going to show you some
of the configuration files that were
built in the background while we
set up the Open Directory master.
One of which would be the
edu.mit Kerberos file.
And we can see here that it was
auto-generated from the LDAP on the
Open Directory on the local node.
And here is our Kerberos Realm.
But we don't want to use that Realm.
We want to use our
Active Directory Realm.
So we're going to take
this one step further.
And we're going to simply
get rid of it right now.
The other file that's of importance
here is the Kerberos keytap file that
I mentioned earlier that was created
when we created an Open Directory master.
We can actually read out that
information by using K list minus KT.
And here you can see all the
service principles on the server
that have been Kerberized.
And what you're really looking for
here is the second part of this.
Well, on the left-hand side,
you can see what the service is.
On the right-hand side,
you can see the Kerberos realm
that it's expecting to use.
Now, in our case, server.copycat.org is
actually our Open Directory.
We want to use the Active Directory,
which should just be copycat.org.
So we're actually going to
get rid of this file as well.
It will auto-generate again when
we bind into Active Directory and
Kerberize the server again.
And to do that,
we just do an RM again on the Etsy, KRP5,
a key tab file.
And that's gone.
And just to make sure,
we can actually ask it to read
out the key tab one more time.
And it comes back and says
there isn't anything there.
So the next step that we want to
do is we actually want to bind
into the Active Directory itself.
And in the Utilities folder,
you'll find Directory Access.
In there,
we've got an Active Directory plugin.
It's a great tool to use.
You don't have to do
LDAP mappings all over the place.
You can use the LDAPv3 plugin.
And when we double click on it,
it's got a very informative GUI.
We know that our Active Directory domain
is copycat.org and we just
want to bind in a server.
At the bottom here we've got
lots of different options.
You may choose to prefer
a specific server,
which we can do here.
and we can allow administration
by the domain admins and
enterprise admins in Windows.
At this point,
we want to use a Windows administrative
name and password.
We're told to go ahead and bind in.
And it found an existing account.
We had tried this out earlier to make
sure everything was set up for the demo.
We actually, when we unbind,
will remove that.
So we do clean up after ourselves.
Now it's going to tell us that
we can join the Kerberos realm.
And we're going to show you two
different ways that you can do that.
So we're going to click OK.
We're going to click OK again.
And the one thing that we want to double
check here right now is authentication.
We want to make sure that our
Active Directory is moved to the top,
since it is our primary
authentication authority here.
Click on Apply.
And what we're going to do in
here again is we are going to run,
we're going to show you
two different ways here.
In settings on Open Directory,
You see there's a Curberize button
down here in the bottom middle.
You could use that.
Alternatively, we like using the command
line version of that,
which is what we've shown
you here right this second.
So we have dsconfig-ad.
which is the directory service
configuration of the AD plugin
and we're going to tell it to
enable the SSO environment for us.
So at this point, we can go back in,
tell it to look at the Kerberos key tab,
and you can see it has regenerated.
You can see that our
Kerberos realm at the bottom,
at the right side here, is copycat.org,
as it should be.
And this is all scriptable.
You can script things to bind your
machines into Active Directory,
and we'll get into that more
in just a little bit when
we get to the client side.
I'm sorry?
So the next tool we're
going to show you is DSCL,
which is the
Directory Services Command Line Tool.
And we're going to show you
How easy it is to actually read out
information from Active Directory.
And this is actually a good test,
because if you can't read
out the information or
reach the Active Directory,
you're not going to get much
further in the integration.
And you can actually use this just like
any other terminal window at this point.
So we're going to
CD into Active Directory,
and get into the old domains,
and we're going to move into the users.
If we do an LS on that,
we can see here are the users
that are in the Active Directory.
We can actually read out the
information on one of the users,
read out Michael,
and here is all the information that we
can get out of the Active Directory here.
I'm going to kind of scroll
through this for you guys here.
So the next step we want to do
is we want to show off a little
bit of file sharing as well,
since we have an integrated
server at this point.
We can start up our favorite
file sharing service.
and Michael Dahl.
We're going to open up a second
tool that we commonly use.
It's Workgroup Manager.
If you're not familiar with it,
this is where you can actually
administer your users and groups in the
ADLDAP that's on your Open Directory.
And the first thing we want to do is
check up here on the left hand side,
you can see what directory
you're looking at.
In this case, we are looking at our local
Open Directory master.
And we're going to click the lock here.
And we're going to use the
diradmin username and password
that we created previously when we
created the Open Directory master.
So now we're authenticated
to our local LDAP,
and we can actually go in
and make modifications.
In this case,
what we're going to want to do
is we're going to move over to
groups and create a new group,
and we'll call this test group.
And click on the plus sign
on the right hand side.
And it's going to show you the available
users that you could put into that group.
In this case,
we can actually go right into
Active Directory and take myself and
Rick and place them right into the group
to apply Managed Client Settings to them.
Click on Save,
and now we'll go over into Preferences.
This is where we can actually get
into the magic triangle where we're
applying group management policy onto
Mac OS X clients using Active Directory.
So we're going to go into
here and we're going to add
in some important preferences.
And it's been shown that
if we modify the docs,
it's always very large at all times.
And on the left-hand side,
you'll actually get 40% more
productivity out of your end users.
And we're going to make sure that it's
actually there at all times to remind
them of the work they should be doing.
And we'll apply that.
We'll create a quick share here so
that we can test that out as well.
So in this case,
we'll just go into the local hard drive.
This could be an XServe RAID.
And we'll go into Shared Items,
and we'll create a new folder.
WWDC test.
And we will tell it to share
the items in its contents.
We can go over to Users and Groups
and take our Open Directory group
that we just created,
drag it right in as Read&Write,
and save that.
One other thing I want to show is
we can actually see the MCX that we
put in to that Open Directory group.
And again, we can use DSCL.
And this time we're going to tell
it to look at the LDAPv3 plugin,
which is going to look at
our Open Directory master
locally hosed on this machine.
And we're going to change
directives into groups.
And we can see our test group is
listed right here at the bottom.
And we're going to read out test group.
And there's a lot of stuff here,
so we're just going to
do a search for left.
Since we knew we moved the
orientation of the dock to the left,
and we can see here is
the value pair right here.
So that'll give you a little overview
of how you can integrate with
Active Directory for file services,
for work group management,
and for file service and
work group management.
Thank you guys very much.
We're going to turn it over to Rick now.
Okay, well I'm going to be showing you
guys today how we can integrate
clients into Active Directory,
what some of the options are, etc.
So let me log out here.
We're going to unbind the
system from Active Directory.
As you can see, we're all very creative
with our accounts here.
Here is the Active Directory plugin
just like Mike showed you.
I'm going to go over some
of the basic options.
This is pretty much what you will
see in OS X Server and OS X Clients,
all the same.
So obviously right here we have
our Active Directory domain,
copycat.org.
The computer ID I set to some dude here.
You can set that to
basically whatever you want.
It needs to be something unique.
You can use the system serial number,
Mac address,
something you want to talk to your
Active Directory administrator about,
but it just needs to be something unique.
So you can see some of
the options down here.
We have create mobile account at login.
What that's going to do is when
the user logs in with their
Active Directory account for
the first time to the system,
it will basically take their
Active Directory account information
and cache it in the NetInfo database.
So let's say this is--
this is somebody's laptop.
They unplug it from your guys'
network and go on a trip someplace.
They'll still be able to log
into the system with their
Active Directory account since it will
keep all their information cached.
Right below it you see
require confirmation before
creating a mobile account.
Typically I leave this turned off.
The reason is when the
user first logs in,
it will actually prompt the user if they
want to create a mobile account or not.
About 70% of the time they're going
to freak out and not know what it is,
click no.
You typically want it to be creative,
so just turn off the confirmation.
Force local home
directory on startup disk.
You want to leave that checked
if you want the user to
have a local home directory.
If you have that unchecked and
you have this next option checked,
there's a good chance the user
is going to get a network home.
So this next option here,
use UNC path from Active Directory to
derive network home location.
Basically,
that will hit Active Directory and
look for wherever the field
in Active Directory the user's
network home directory is defined
and mount that on their desktop.
Now, if you have that checked and
the option above unchecked,
the user will get a
network home directory.
Down here, you'll see the network
protocol to be used.
You can either select SMB or AFP.
If you are doing network homes,
it's probably best if you host them
on an Apple file server and use
AFP simply for the reason that some
applications have issues working
with SMB network home directories.
And you get the benefits of AFP,
like automatic reconnects if you lose
your network connection temporarily,
et cetera.
So down here we have
the default user shell.
Obviously, this is something that's not
natively in Active Directory.
So we set it to bash,
which should be fine for most cases.
But you can set it to whatever you want.
So next over here we have the mappings.
95% of the time you're
never going to touch this.
This would be for certain
applications that,
let's say,
they have an issue with the automatically
generated UIDs and group IDs that
you get from Active Directory.
If you needed to,
you could set them right
here in the mappings.
Now some interesting options here
in the administrative section.
Right here you have
prefer this domain server.
If you want to always point the client
to a very specific domain controller,
you can specify that right here.
Another really useful option
is allow administration by.
Basically, any Active Directory groups
added in here,
if you have this checked,
the members of those groups,
if they log into your system,
will have administrative rights.
The only exception to that is sudo.
If they're trying to use sudo,
they won't be in the sudoers file and
won't get administrative access there,
but otherwise,
they'll be able to administer the system.
So a very handy way to give
a set group of people admin
access to all your systems.
Down here we have allow authentication
from any domain in the forest.
If you only want people basically
authenticating in one specific domain,
you would want to leave that unchecked.
Otherwise,
it will let anybody in any domain
in Active Directory authenticate
to this computer.
So if you don't want that,
leave this unchecked.
So we're going to go ahead and bind
the system back to Active Directory.
So again,
we put in an Active Directory user
that has rights to bind the system.
Click OK.
Now, the binding time here,
it's going to vary depending
on how your network's set up,
how Active Directory is set up,
et cetera.
So it could take a few seconds.
It could take up to a minute or two.
It really kind of depends on
how your network's set up.
So we'll let this finish binding here.
Okay, excellent.
So we are on Active Directory.
So also notice on authentication,
we're pointing at copycat.org here.
I'm going to move that up to
make the magic triangle stuff
the mic setup work correctly.
Okay,
we're going to go ahead and quit that.
Now I'm sure some of you might
also be interested in binding to
Active Directory from the command line,
scripting this, etc.
I'm going to show you guys a
really basic script I wrote.
There's a lot cooler things you can
do if you get more into depth and
you can talk to me afterwards and
I can give you some of these ideas,
but here's a basic example.
What this script basically does,
it's going to grab the computer's
serial number and it's going to
use that for the computer name.
So you can see right here,
it's just a basic shell script,
setting a variable called computer name.
I'm hitting system profiler and
grepping out the serial number,
munging the text a bit,
and that's how I get the serial number.
Then right here I'm running DSConfigAD,
which is the command line
tool which will let you bind
a system to Active Directory.
You got it.
There we go.
Is that better?
Okay.
So we can see right here we are
binding to Active Directory.
We're specifying a computer name,
the domain, which is copycat.org,
and the Active Directory user
that's allowed to bind.
Again,
administrator in Apple is the password,
so username and password's right there.
So once it's bound,
we're going to set some of
the options in the plug-in.
You can see right here,
here's a couple of the example options.
I'm enabling mobile accounts,
but I'm disabling the confirmation,
and we are basically
forcing local homes here.
So next, last but not least,
the system's bound to
Active Directory at this point,
but you still need to add the path to
Active Directory to the authentication
section in Directory Access so people
can actually log into your system
with Active Directory accounts.
These two commands
right here do the trick.
They're pretty widely
documented on the Internet.
You can find them, no problem,
but that's what actually lets
you authenticate once you are
bound to Active Directory.
So it's an example of the script.
Again, there's a lot of other cool stuff
you can do to really trick this out,
so talk to me afterwards
if you have any questions.
So we won't save that.
And we're going to log in with Rick,
which is one of our test accounts.
Okay, so here we go.
We are logged in as Rick.
Notice over here,
we have the dock on the left side
just like Mike set up for us.
So we know that we are getting managed
references from Open Directory.
Also wanted to show you another
cool script I wrote that you guys
might be able to use and please
talk to me afterwards if you're
interested in learning more about it.
One thing that you guys
will notice is that
Mac OS X isn't so good about telling
you if your Active Directory password
is about to expire.
So we have this.
I wrote a little Apple script
that folds in some Perl scripts,
et cetera, called Expire Check.
You can set this to run as
a login item for your users.
You get this.
The way I have this set up is
that if the password's going
to expire within seven days,
you'll get something like this.
It says, you know,
your password will expire
in X amount of days.
Please open system preferences.
Go to accounts and change your password.
If it's going to expire
in three days or less,
it gets a little bit nastier.
It gives you a slightly nastier message
and opens up the accounts preferences
for you and asks you to change
your password right then and there.
So again,
if you're interested in how this works,
come talk to me afterwards.
I'd be glad to help.
All right, and that's it for my
client demonstration.
I'll hand it back to Ståle.
Can we switch back to the
presentation station please?
Good demonstrations people.
What we showed here was essentially
a vanilla setup of integration.
There's very little magic that we
did when we set this up this week.
The only thing that was actually custom
were the login scripts that Rick showed
and also the password expiration notice.
Other than that,
everything is out of the box.
The OS X we're running 10.4.7 and
the Active Directory Domain was a
standard 2003 with Service Pack 1.
Thank you Michael and thank you Rick.
Real quick,
a little bit about troubleshooting.
Unfortunately,
Nicole Schock from AppleCare had
a very good session about
troubleshooting that started at 10:15.
So if somebody has a time machine,
we can go back and she will be
having some good slides at her
presentation about what to do,
not only with Active Directory,
but generally with regards
to troubleshooting.
But there are a couple of things that we
should mention that may come in handy.
MemberD,
as you guys have heard of before,
is going away in Leopard.
But right now,
you have the capability to dump
the MemberD log and the cache
to see what MemberD contains.
And that's pretty useful if
and when you have users that,
for some reason,
aren't able to get to resources
on an OS X server that they
should be able to get to.
You issue a MemberD.
You have to do a D-L.
It'll dump that to a log file,
MemberD_Dump, inside of library logs.
Another good way of finding out what's
going on is to use packet traces.
It's not always for the faint of heart.
And in order to narrow down
the scope a little bit,
you have the option of specifying
some ports that you can use.
Port 88, 464, 389, 32,
68 will cover LDAP, Kerberos,
Global Catalog,
and it will still give you every
packet that goes over the wire,
but at least you're not going to
have TCP dump log every port and
every protocol that is on the wire
when you're trying to do this.
That command that's listed up
there will create a nice file.
That will only log those files.
You issue the command
before you start binding,
and you see what the problem is,
and you kill it.
Issue the command again.
It's going to create a capture out
file that's going to be stored in
the root of the home directory of
the user that issued that command.
You can either look through that
file using any tool that you like.
Etherpeak and Ethereal are
two that people seem to be
liking more than others.
Another excellent way of troubleshooting
Active Directory is to use Diskl,
the
Director Services Command Line utility.
If you can't read user records
or group records or anything from
Active Directory using Diskl,
there's no reason for you to keep
trying to authenticate users or
trying to get things to move along.
Because if this right here doesn't work,
you're not bound correctly
to Active Directory.
So what we usually do when we're
on site or when you're trying
to troubleshoot something,
when you bind a client or a server,
Try and read a record
out of Active Directory.
Issue an ID command to see if it's
recognizing the fact that it's bound.
If that doesn't work,
anything you do from there
on is also going to fail.
So it's pretty important to make
sure that you do this first.
If you are doing an Open Directory,
Active Directory managed
client environment,
sometimes you may find that you make
settings for a group or you make settings
for a user that may not always take.
Like Michael said,
the productivity level of having a dock
to the left may increase by 40%, but for
some reason it doesn't take for a user.
What do you do at that point?
You have a couple of options.
You can use this command right here
that essentially tells the managed
client daemon to flush the cache.
And what then happens is the
next time that user logs in,
it's going to go to the
Open Directory and reread the record
and make sure that it has the latest,
greatest, and the most recent settings
that's been defined for that user.
If you're in NetInfo Manager,
you can also do it manually in NetInfo.
And if you're still using Panther,
then manually doing it in NetInfo
Manager is the only option you
have to kill the cache like that.
Get a feel for what your
DNS settings are before you start
binding to Active Directory.
If DNS for some reason is
screwed up and you're trying to
get Active Directory to work,
then you're going to send yourself
up for a pretty interesting day.
We're not going to argue with
Microsoft when they say that
they recommend using Microsoft's
DNS servers for Active Directory.
We play very well with that.
That is not to say that you
can't use any other DNS server,
and there are many other good ones.
But there are a couple of things
that you have to keep in mind.
The OS X client and the OS X server,
they have to be able to get to the
service records for Active Directory.
And those are created automatically when
you set up a DNS server for the first
time when you create Active Directory.
So all you do is you just point it to the
Microsoft DNS server and you're there.
If you have a third-party DNS server,
then you have to make sure that you
point the client and the OS X server
to a DNS server that contains the
Active Directory service records.
Because that's how the ADP works.
The ADP plugin resolves all
the information it needs to,
such as finding domain controllers.
And then also, you want to probably use a
DNS server that supports dynamic DNS.
That will come in very handy.
If you want to look at a debug log,
a DS debug log,
You kill the directory services
by issuing a -usr1 command.
And what that's going to do is it's
going to create a debug log that's
going to essentially log everything
that the directory services process
does until you issue the command again.
And that log file is stored in library
preferences directory services.
And it's a very, very good log.
Directory services is very chatty
and the log file will reflect that.
And in this case, when you're trying to
troubleshoot something,
it's actually a good thing.
Open up in console,
found in the utilities folder,
you have a handy little window
at the top right where you can
actually sort by various variables,
sort by AD plugin.
And the only thing you'll see from
then on in the log is the actual log
entries that the AD plugin spits out
in the directory services debug log.
Also,
when you do an integration like this,
keep in mind how you want
to do the client management.
Do you want to do a magic
triangle environment?
Do you want to use
Open Directory for that?
Do you want to do schema extensions
and extend the Active Directory schema?
In that case, you need to work with your
AD administrators to do that
and make sure that they are
aware of what that means.
Also, DSConfig enable SSO on the
OS X Server will Kerberize the
services and tell the Kerberize
services what principles to use.
And that's how you pretty much
tell your OS X Server to use the
Active Directory Kerberos Realm.